okay here we are back at Okies garage
and today what we got our assignment
today is to do a top end
rebuild on a o6 yz250 f and as you can
see this is a good way to start it off
is that this everything you're going to
have to take off the bike in order to
get this job done um we're going to at
the mag is off because we're going to
change the timing chain which is I think
it's great idea while this is apart um
so this is what you should end up
looking like when you're all ready to do
your job here you can see the old timing
chains just hanging out of the cases um
ripped it all down everything looks
really good in this I took the whole
back obviously the whole subframe off
this that's sitting over here one thing
I wanted to comment about about this is
that one of the first things I do when I
check out a bike is to feel inside the
air intake and see if there's any kind
of dirt that's ever made it by the air
filter and it has not somebody's doing
their air filter all the time here this
guy's really on top of things a racing
bike and he race it all the time and
does really good maintenance on and
that's as we go through this gonna pay
off so anyway this is a top end I'll
taking apart everything stripped down
nice and easy to work on got the top end
off got the cylinder off and that's over
here with a bench and the cylinder looks
really beautiful
I hope you can see that in there but
just fill the hash marks in there
doesn't need any kind of honing or
anything looks absolutely beautiful did
the clearances on the valves
I tested check those all out have to
make sure that the cans are up I put do
it on the bench because it's easier to
do put all the caps back on all the
bolts back on torque them all down get
so the cam is well it's kind of hard to
see the dots and stuff on this but once
the cams are all in position you do your
measurements feeler gauge in between
this is a bucket and Shimin bucket set
up and it all measured out beautiful
another I'm telling this thing is
absolutely beautiful nothing wrong bike
came to me nice and clean which I always
appreciate and I I am we're going to
like I say we're gonna we're gonna
replace the I want to show you here this
is what we're doing
we got Pro Circuit high compression
piston that's what's going to go into it
obviously a brand new gasket set comes
with all the seals and here's your brand
new Pro Circuit high compression piston
we're going to throw in it get a little
bit more performance out of it this
actually take it comes with the stock
Yamaha rings and circlips
everything comes in one little kit very
nice kit and we're gonna put that in
here anytime you run a higher
compression piston you're obviously
asking for a little bit of trouble
because you're you're putting something
in that really wasn't made for the bike
and these things put these things put
out enough horsepower now but that's
what we're going to do anyway we're
going to throw a high compression piston
it we're going to put a new timing chain
in we have right here Weis go cam chain
and the only reason we bought a white
skull one is because it came in a little
quicker we want to race this thing this
weekend and it's important to put a new
timing chain in it because the old
timing chains the OEM timing chains can
get a little bit stretched out and once
chained stretches out a little bit it
might throw your timing off just a hair
and it's not as good as performance of
keeping a brand new chain in there all
the time
when the factory teams to it every time
they do a top and rebuild they change
their cam chain so and another thing I
wanted to mention is this is what he's
been running in this bike since he
bought it
this AMSOIL 1030 high-performance
synthetic motor oil and I will a friend
of mine has been telling me about AMSOIL
for years and inspecting this engine i
would say that it's been doing a really
good job because this in oh six has been
really is in beautiful shape but has
been ridden hard it's a racing bike and
it's been ridden hard for four years now
and everything shows really good
beautiful
as far as see nothing wrong the crank is
nice and tight if you you know give the
kick you know usually we go
pisses off I do this little test but you
know you give a little rocking you know
like you're trying to turn the piston to
see if there's any kind of connecting
rod lower end play there this is
beautifully tight as tight as brand-new
and every Olive rings move around
absolutely perfectly that's what you get
when you actually take care of your
motorcycle and keep changing the oil
these things the four strokes are
putting out a lot of power they're
sharing the oil with the top end and the
transmission you got to take that in
consideration that they shared into
Honda's they have separate chambers they
actually do the top end
bottom end of the engine and the
transmission is a separate oil so but on
Yamahas they they share the same oil so
you got to change that all the time and
obviously this guy has changed its oil a
lot of times and I'm it pays off because
it's absolutely nothing wrong we need to
do no cylinder work we need to do
absolutely nothing that's a little
speech on that so another little trick
is I didn't even take the carburetor out
of here at all I just zip tied it back
to the shock in order to get it out of
the way enough to to get the cylinder
off and everything obviously this is all
still done the in the frame and there's
no need to take the engine out at all
and then came apart beautifully and well
that's about it that's how if you have
any other questions let me know through
your comments and I'll try to help you
out and this is a O'Connor motorcycle
and ATV repair signing up thank you